

Geodesy


Fundamentals





Geodesy
Geodynamics
Geomatics
Cartography
History





Concepts





Datum
Geographical distance
Geoid
Figure of the Earth
Geodetic system
Geodesic
Geographic coordinate system
Horizontal position representation
Latitude / Longitude
Map projection
Reference ellipsoid
Satellite geodesy
Spatial reference system





Technologies




Global Navigation Satellite System (GNSS)
Global Positioning System (GPS)
GLONASS (Russian)
Galileo (European)

Indian Regional Navigation
Satellite System (IRNSS)

BeiDou-2 (Chinese)




Standards





ED50
European Datum 1950


SAD69
South American Datum 1969


GRS 80
Geodetic Reference System 1980


NAD83
North American Datum 1983


WGS84
World Geodetic System 1984


NAVD88
N. American Vertical Datum 1988


ETRS89

European Terrestrial Reference
System 1989




Spatial Reference System Identifier (SRID)
Universal Transverse Mercator (UTM)




History




NGVD29 (Sea Level Datum 1929)







v
t
e





The United States National Grid (USNG) is a point reference system of grid references commonly used in United States. It provides a nationally consistent language of location in a user friendly format. It is similar in design to the national grid reference systems used throughout other nations. The USNG was developed by the Federal Geographic Data Committee.



Contents


1 Overview
2 See also
3 References
4 External links




§Overview[edit]

The purpose of the USNG according to the FGDC, is to "create a more interoperable environment for developing location-based services within the United States and to increase the interoperability of location services appliances with printed map products by establishing a nationally consistent grid reference system as the preferred grid for NSDI applications. The U.S. National Grid is based on universally-defined coordinate and grid systems and can, therefore, be easily extended for use worldwide as a universal grid reference system." [1]
It resembles the Military Grid Reference System (MGRS). When the WGS84 datum or NAD83 datum is used, USNG and MGRS coordinates are "equivalent"[2]
In addition, it has the advantage of being easily plotted on USGS topographic and other properly gridded maps by using a simple "read right and then up" convention where the user measures to the East and then North in linear increments. The coordinates are easily translated to distance as they are actually in meters rather than the more complex degree based increments of latitude and longitude. Thus the distance between two coordinates can quickly be determined in the field.
USNG 1 km2 grid state-wide polygons for select states can be downloaded from http://usngcenter.org. The website also provides more detailed information about the US National Grid.
USNG allows a common system based on the US Military Grid system using landmarks like hills or streams, anything permanent. It allows these maps to be printed anywhere by responders totally unfamiliar with the local area. The degree of precision is determined by the number of digits in the coordinates, 23 67 = 1000 meters, 23451 67345 = 1 meter.

§See also[edit]


Ordnance Survey National Grid
Irish national grid reference system
International Map of the World#Map Indexing System


§References[edit]




^ [1]


^ Cavell, J. Anthony. "A Guide to using the USNG", The American Surveyor, 2005. Retrieved on 14 September 2012.




FGDC, United States National Grid (USNG), December 2001, Reston, Virginia, 1 megabyte PDF

Cavell, J. Anthony. “A Guide to using the USNG”, The American Surveyor, 2005. PDF



§External links[edit]


[2]
USNG homepage
How to Read a United States National Grid (USNG) Spatial Address
Utility to convert latitude and longitude to USNG
Demonstration of USNG on a Google Map

Gmap4, an enhanced Google map viewer with a USNG grid and more.

